As you know, one of the most important areas in which Julia really shines is numerical computing and
machine learning.
The reason for this is the excellent building support for arrays, matrices and sensors in Julia.
So let's go ahead and take a look at that.
So we're going to define a list as we did before.
And these are called arrays in Julia.
So if you do that, we'll get an array of type string, which is one dimensional and it has three elements.
We can take a look at the type of this variable to see that it is indeed an array which holds all elements
of type string and it is one dimensional.
So this is a one day array of string values.
Similarly, we can define a one d array of integer values.
So this is going to be an in 64 type array with one dimension only.
We can go ahead and do the usual operations on that, such as Bush, which pushes the element at the
end and we can pop, which is going to remove the element and modify the actual right.
So let's go ahead and turn this into a tree so we can do that using the usuals index of a list of lists.
So this is a list and in it each element in itself is a list.
Right.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This is going to give us an array and the type of each element in that area is an array itself.
So that is how you read this.
It's a three elementary and each element itself is an array of integers.
So this one guy over here is this.
Array of integers, which is one dimensional.
You can take a look at the type which gives you the same information.
Now notice that this is not a total matrix.
This is an array of arrays, which means that I can go ahead and change the size of this to that.
And this still works.
So the size of each array can be different because the type is still in 64, comma one.
OK, so what if we want to create a two, the Matrix or two, the array instead of an array of arrays?
The syntax for that is slightly different, but very similar.
So we say X is equal to one, two, three, notice that there are no commas in between each element.
So here we have commas and here there are no commas.
So X is equal to one comment three, and you will notice that the type now is one x three.
So it's a one in two three array and each element is in 64 and the dimensions of this array are two.
Now I also notice the difference of this.
This is extremely important that the type of this is an array of arrays and this is a to the array and
the sizes one grows three.
OK, so this is if you're wondering now, we can go ahead and transpose this and this is going to turn
this into a column vector, so to say.
And you will see that the type is something really weird, but it's still an array of insectivores,
which is two dimensional and it has been converted somehow into another type.
But we don't want to go into that just now.
We'll come back to this when we need it.
OK, we can take this step further and do a two degree so we can have one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine.
And notice that we are missing the commas in between the different roles as well.
So no commas at all that is going to convert this into a matrix or a 2D array of 64 types.
So this is a three by three.
What that means is if I try to do this, this is not going to work.
So if I say seven, eight, nine, 12, the number of columns of each array must match.
Right.
So that has to be equal for all of them.
That is all matrix works.
OK, so let's go ahead and change that back.
So this is now a matrix, which is a two degree each element of which is in 64.
If you convert one of these to offload, everything is going to turn into a flaw.
So now this is a 464 array.
All the elements are not flawed.
OK, we've done this before.
Now, let's go ahead and take a look at the shapes of arrays and a little bit about reshaping how that
works, because this is going to be very important later on when we do machine learning with Julia so
we can say size of mat.
And this is going to tell us into one that this is a three by three matrix.
We can also go ahead and take a look at the size of this X that we created, which was essentially a
vector.
So this is a one by three and we can see the size of fib, which is this guy over here.
So FIB is an array which has seven elements.
Right.
So you will notice the difference.
This is not one cross seven.
This is just seven.
OK, because this is a one dimensional array and that has just this one dimension, which has seven
elements here.
We have a.
Still one dimensional array, but it's a one cross, three matrix or what we do typically as a vector.
So this has a distinction.
And when you do machine learning, this is going to cause headaches or really make your life easier
if you understand this.
So go ahead and revise this so that you understand the difference between the two.
OK, so let's define a Matrix X, which has these elements.
We can go ahead and reshape this.
So this is right now a four by three three so foras and three columns.
We can go ahead and reshape this into a two by six matrix so we can reshape this.
So you will notice this goes one for.
Then 17 and two, five and eight, 11, three, six and nine, 12, so that is how the reshaping works.
It's going to convert the four by three right into a two by six three.
According to this rule, it goes from left top to bottom and then to the right.
So that is how it goes if we can reshape this to a 12 by one.
So it goes one four seven, 10, two, five, eight, 11, three, six, nine, 12.
So that is how this goes.
So top left.
First it goes down, then it goes right and then down and then right.
And that is how reshaping works.
We can go ahead and reach back to a four by three.
And the way this will work is if you change something and then you reshape it back, the rules are simply
going to work out to produce the same matrix for you.
So if you reshape this into a four by three, it's going to create the first column as one four seven
ten.
Then the second column is two five eight 11.
And the last column is three six nine twelve, which is exactly the same thing that we started with
over here.
OK, so the shaping really works out.
So why is this reshaping necessary?
Sometimes when you have a model that expects a specific shape and you have your data in another shape,
you don't want to modify the model, you want to modify your data to fit the shape.
So, again, when we get to the machine learning part, we'll see how this works out.
Right now, we're just doing the building blocks, so finally, let's go ahead and take a look at some
helper functions for working with mattresses.
So we have a land function which creates a four by three array or a matrix which has random numbers
going from zero all the way up to one.
OK, so each element is uniformly distributed from zero to one.
We can save this in an array.
So over here, Matt, we can create a copy of that.
And if you recall from the last lecture, if you modify my to one comma one.
So that is essentially how you access the individual elements within the Matrix.
So roll comma column.
If you change that, Mattu is changed and so is one.
Right.
So you would recall this.
This is the same problem of sharing the memory, even though you did this right.
So you did not create a copy, you simply created a new reference variable, which is pointing to the
same matrix.
If you want to actually create a copy, which is sometimes necessary, you can go ahead and use the
copy function as before.
So if you do that math three one one changes Matt three but does not change Matt itself.
So Matt remains the same as before and Matri cannot change.
So you can use copy if you want to create an actual copy of your whole data.
Obviously, if you have like a million by million Matrix, you don't want to create a copy.
You want to somehow optimize your code anyway.
Just as with all other modern languages, we have a way of creating lists or arrays using comprehensions
which are a shortcut for creating lists.
So if you have not seen this before, it's a very simple syntax.
So we can say for I in one to five.
So this is going to create a list which is going to go from one to five.
And for each of the elements, it's going to collect this.
It's a lot more difficult to explain.
It's very easy to just show it to you, so I'll show that to you.
So it creates a five elementary.
It goes from one to five and it creates I the second time I and the third time I and the four time I
and the fifth time I write.
So you can go ahead and change this to a square.
And this is going to create this list for you.
You can go all the way up to 10 and this is going to go all the way up to 10 and square the numbers.
So that is how this works.
You can also go ahead and do a nested loop.
So for I in one, two, five, comma in six to ten.
So this is essentially going to create a nested loop in which I'm going to go from one to five and within
that loop is going to go from six to 10.
So essentially when you do I go the first time, it's going to be one comma six, then it's going to
be one comma seven, then one eight all the way up to one moment.
And then it's going to go to six to seven all the way up to 2010 and so on.
So this creates a five favorite because these are five elements and these are five.
And the first time it's going to go one six one seven one eight one nine 110.
And the second time when the outer loop runs, it does this.
So this is going to be a Cartesian product.
It's a very handy way of doing simple manipulations to create matrices.
Obviously, this is right now a five by five three in which each element is a tuple.
And within that we have in 64 comma in 64 values.
Right.
So in 64, in 64, one element is an array and the array itself is five by five.
So I'll repeat that.
Make sure that you understand this.
We are slowly building the type system of Julia.
We're building an understanding of this type system so that when you see very large, complicated data,
you understand them.
So once again, this is a five five three, because this is a five by five matrix.
Each element itself is a tuple.
So this is that tuple.
The array itself is two dimensional because it has rules and it has columns, and within the double
there are two elements.
The first one is in 1864 and the second one is also in 64.
As before we can go ahead and change each individual element to be something else.
So this can be squared.
So same thing.
But this is going to go from one nine four nine six twenty five.
We can also say Agere plus one or whatever function you want to use.
Right.
So seven, eight, nine, 10, 11.
You can also do by two.
So all of this works out great so you can have fractions.
So now you have a five five three in which each element is a tuple.
The first element of that tuple is in 1864 and the second is a rational.
Off in 64.
So now this is getting really complicated.
Make sure that you pause and you understand this, OK?
Finally, a couple of operations.
So you're going to have a random array created, which is three by three.
But instead of from zero to one, each element is going to be between 10 and 20.
OK, so you have these insectivores and these are between 10 and 20, both inclusive.
You can also convert them to floats by just setting this 10 to attend dot to 10.
DOT is going to mean start from the float and go all the way up to 20 and the type promotion system
in Julia is going to convert everything into floats.
So this is an array of insectivores and this is an array of floats, 60 force.
Instead of random values, we can provide a specific value using the field method so we can create a
fill method in which we are going to have a.
Three sized.
And it's going to have the exact value, 10 X is going to have three tents over here.
OK, now that we have this E and this X, we can go ahead and multiply them together.
And the Syntex, because this is built in Julia, you can simply say into X and this is just going to
work out perfectly.
Right.
So this is obviously a matrix vector multiplication.
So you have the typical rule of law.
Multiply that this vector and the second row multiply by this vector and the third rule multiplied by
the sweater to give you the final result.
So this works really well.
We can also do basic operations like transport, so you can say a crime to get the transport.
So this goes from 10, 15, 12 to 10, 15, 12.
So it rolls into columns, columns and rows.
That's the transport.
You can also do a crime into it.
And because this is a very common operation, Julia provides a shortcut.
So you can even multiply saying you can say Ibrahimy and this is going to do the same operation.
So this is very typical with Julia.
Julia strives to make sure that it's Syntex matches the actual mathematics as closely as possible because
that helps people translate research papers and research work, which is in mathematics into Julia.
All right.
So you're Julia, what is going to look very similar to the actual mathematics that is in research papers
and in the state of the art work?
You can do the trace.
So trace of it is not defined because we need to do linear algebra for that.
So we have the package using linear algebra.
So recall that if this package gives you an error, you can do because you don't add linear algebra
as we did in the very first video of this course.
OK, so now you can do a trace of it.
You can calculate the determinant very easily using the debt function and you can calculate the inverse,
obviously, if it's possible to create the inverse.
OK, you can solve linear equations directly.
So, for instance, you have a which is a random variable.
You have an X, which we already have.
You can say B is equal to eight weeks.
So that creates the B.
And if you recall, if you have this into X is equal to B, you can calculate the actual values.
And solve for B, right, so you can say a baby.
And it gives you the actual values.
OK, so as you can see, it's very close and this isn't exactly ten point zero because of floating point
arithmetic in computers, but this works out really well night.
So you get the blackout.
If you don't understand this linear equations, if you don't remember your linear algebra, it's fine.
You don't really need it for this course or even for machine learning.
But I just want you to cover it to let you know that this is available.
And.
Finally, we've seen a two dimensional array, but you can go ahead and convert these into Tensas,
which are larger dimensional matrices, so to say.
So you can have a row column come in depth something else, so you can have a four dimensional rate
as well.
So now this is a forward into three to two or three.
So these are now three dimensions, which you can think that this is Wednesday.
And coming out from the screen is this other piece of paper.
So think of these as two different pieces of paper lying on top of each other.
So on the first paper, this is written and on the second paper.
This is right.
And so this is now kind of like a three dimensional structure.
So instead of a two dimensional structure, which can be written on a paper, now you have a three dimensional
structure.
So this is called a pencil within intenser flow comes from, by the way.
So these are Tensas.
If you're not familiar with Tensas, we'll get to these when you get to machine learning.
But for now, it's sufficient to say that you can create any number of dimensions using this index.
Right.
So now you have a four by three by two by five, three or four dimensions.
You can see a lot more in this over here.
So in this linear algebra.
So on this link, you have all the functionality that is provided with the linear algebra package in.
So this is built in.
You don't have to install anything for this.
So if you want to explore this further, you're welcome to go ahead for our purposes.
This is all we need.
And when you start doing data and machine learning, we'll come back to this and go through this once
more.
In the next year, we are going to take a look at some final thoughts about different data types.
Those stereotypes aren't really used in machine learning and data science, but I'm including them here
for the sake of completeness.